Introduction:
-------------

Messages is a combination of UNIX and Macintosh programs designed to make
it easy to communicate short messages (not email) between Mac and UNIX users.

The shar files includes C source for use with the Columbia AppleTalk
Package (CAP) on UNIX and a StuffIt/BinHex file containing the mac components.

For more information on the UNIX programs, refer to the *.1l manual entries.

Macintosh files in messages.hqx:
--------------------------------

'Messages' is a Control Panel document that receives and displays short 
messages. 'Messages DA' is used to lookup users, edit and send messages. 
Together, they provide a similar functionality to the UNIX programs "wall", 
"write" and "biff" for Macintosh users (something akin to "biff" is 
implemented in the UNIX version of the DA).

The messages system was implemented in two parts to allow the use of
'Messages DA' to be restricted in a student environment.

Usage: Messages version 1.6

Copy the file into your System Folder and reboot, a mailbox ICON at INIT
time indicates successful installation. If you don't want to receive a
particular type of message, set this with the Control Panel. At boot time,
the cdev attempts to NBP register the Chooser User Name as type 'macUser' 
(NB: this conflicts with MacServe but I suspect usage of this is fast 
approaching nil so I don't really care). If this name is already in use 
then it generates a warning message to both users and tries 'User-x', 
where x is 0-9, A-Z until successful. If no Chooser name is set, then it
registers 'nobody', 'nobody-0' etc. (no warning messages for this case)
and politely requests that the user enter a Chooser name. Messages will be
received but not displayed for a short period after a reboot.

When a message is received, it is displayed in a scrolling window dialog box
together with an ICON, time of the message and an OK button. If the message
is not acknowledged within 60 seconds the dialog box goes away. Any mouse
movement or arrival of a new message will re-display the original dialog
box (this is different behaviour to the earlier version to be more
compatible with the aims of screensavers). Up to 16 messages can be queued,
after which, as many message headers are saved as possible.


Usage: Messages DA version 1.2

Use Font/DA Mover to install the DA, and, if required, use ResEdit to
edit the file 'myICON' and copy it to the System Folder. Run the DA, if
necessary select a zone, choose a user (shift click for multiple users) or
check the 'Broadcast' button. If you have 'myICON' installed (the 'Send 
ICON' button isn't grey) you can also check this button. Type a message in
the text window, use CR for new lines and Enter or OK to send it (you can
also double click a single user name for the same result). If you send a
message across zones, then your zone name is sent with your message.

BUGS:
	1. messages are limited to about 550 bytes less 128 for the ICON.
	2. it should have a way of receiving messages without requiring 
		use of 'Messages', probably in version 2.0.

