The following is an (incomplete) list of the modifications from CAP
Distribution 5 to CAP Distribution 6.

	* Many patches for extra functionality have been incorporated.
	* Subdirectory 'support' has been added for alternate LAPs.
	* UAB is now bundled with this CAP distribution (support/uab).
	* 'Configure' will recognize the host byte ordering.
	* 'Configure' handles a wider range of machine types.
	* AUFS support for AFP 2.0 is (practically) complete.
	* UAB now supports Asynchronous AppleTalk on a UNIX host.
	* The format of 'atalk.local' has been extended for async appletalk.
	* Zone names in 'atalk.local' MUST now be quoted to include spaces.
	* A "free format" 'etalk.local' is used by EtherTalk LAPs.
	* atis is now Phase 2 NBP compatible (obj/type partial matching).

The following is an (incomplete) list of the modifications from CAP
Distribution 4 to CAP Distribution 5.

The general change are:
  o various directories have been reorganized.  The major ones are:
    doc - documentation, man - manual pages, samples - sample
    programs, applications - heavily used programs (at Columbia), 
    lib - libraries, and etc - support programs. 

  o While a generic Makefile is included, an "os specific" makefile
    generation facility is included and should now be used.

We do not list bug fixes below, only major changes in functionality.

In samples, the various programs now use a define to find cap.printers
allowing it to be relocated from etc.  In addition, look has been
revised to make its operation easier and renamed to atlook to prevent
naming conflicts (looks => atlooklws, and pinger => atpinger)

applications/lwsrv
	lwsrv rewritten.  The major change is that it now stores prep
	files in a directory and automatically captures unknown ones.
applications/papif
	essentially rewritten
	supports psrev, pstext now
	pscomm compatible now

applications/aufs
	user data base of icon types added
	normalizing character set for different types of ascii 
	clean up of kbox too slow code
	new desktop format
	new finderinfo format
	aux support
	sun quota fixed
	.afpvols used if no afpvols
	shutdown code from Scooter Morris added.

lib/cap
	allow modifcation of response cache timeout in atp
	pap fix for cleaning up outstanding papwrites
	fix problem with timeouts in abmisc
	print nis node
	fix up asp to match up specifiable values better
	rework abnet.c,abddp.c,abmisc.c so that they "layer" better
		abnet moved into abkip.c and absched.c
		parts of abmisc.c moved to absched.c
		abddp had KIP (udp) encapsulation dependencies removed
			or hidden
		absched now "schedules" protocol events
		abkip now holds all code for KIP (udp) encapsulation

lib/afp
	fix afposlock up for nfs systems w/o lock daemon

lib/afpc
	clean up

