The purpose of setting up CAP on GitHub is to build an AppleTalk
protocol stack for OS X 10.6 and newer that is compatible with 
Classic Mac OS. That is, AFP-version up to 2.x and transport via DDP
(despite Apple removing DDP from OS X since 10.6).

This will enable AppleTalk networking with emulated machines running 
Classic Mac OS as well as printing on non-IP, AppleTalk-only printers.

It should be possible to make this work using Homebrew.

- 'mabam', March 2015

----------------------------------------------------------------------

	CAP Distribution 6.0, Patch Level 198 + 'asip1', March 1999

In 'CAP.faq' it is stated that the following interim patches are 
available for download from munnari.OZ.AU and can be reversed once 
patch 199 is completed:

	asip.patch	- AppleShareIP support
	cicon.patch	- Color Desktop Icon support
	extnd.patch	- Extended volume size support
	desktop.patch	- Desktop tool color icon support

It appears that patch 199 has never been released and the interim 
patches are not available anymore at munnari.OZ.AU.

They are, however, available for download at
	ftp://iubio.bio.indiana.edu/util/cap/ (log in as guest)
with the first patch substituted for a fixed version called 
'asip1.patch'. 
In this therefore unofficial, though fully patched version of CAP 6.0 
these patches have been applied in the required, above stated order on 
top of the patches 001 to 198.

See also 'cap60.pl198+asip.README' for the original information by 
Don Gilbert from the Department of Biology, Indiana University 
Bloomington.

- 'mabam', March 2015

----------------------------------------------------------------------

	       CAP - Columbia AppleTalk Package for UNIX

	o RELEASE NOTES
	o CAP Distribution 6.0, Patch Level 198, June 1996

Notice
------

Copyright (c) 1986, 1987, 1988, The Trustees of Columbia University in
the City of New York.  Charlie C. Kim, User Services Group, Academic
Information Services Division, Libraries and Center for Computing
Activities and Bill Schilit, formerly of Computer Research Facilities,
Computer Science Department.

Permission is granted to any individual or institution to use, copy,
or redistribute this software so long as it is not sold for profit,
provided that this notice and the original copyright notices are
retained.  Columbia University makes no representations about the
suitability of this software for any purpose.  It is provided "as is"
without express or implied warranty.

--

Portions Copyright (c) 1985, Stanford Univ. SUMEX project.
May be used but not sold without permission.

Portions Copyright (c) 1984, Apple Computer Inc.
Gene Tyacke, Alan Oppenheimer, G. Sidhu, Rich Andrews.

Portions Copyright (c) 1990 - 1996 The University of Melbourne

Modules copyright in part or whole by any other entity than Columbia
University are clearly marked as such.

--

Portions are of the CAP distribution are public domain software.  The
specific items are:
	extras/att_getopt.c
	extras/des.c

Portions of the CAP distribution are contributed by other sites including:
	Rob Chandhok, Computer Science Department, Carnegie Mellon University
	Ed Moy, University of California at Berkeley
	David Hornsby, The University of Melbourne
	Rakesh Patel, Rutgers University
	Paul Campbell


ABSTRACT
--------

CAP was written for BSD 4.2 Unix and derivatives.  CAP implements a
library containing a portion of Apple Computer's AppleTalk protocols.
In order to use this package you may need an AppleTalk/Ethernet bridge
(e.g. Shiva FastPath, Webster MultiPort Gateway). CAP includes a number
of applications that can be used to print to a LaserWriter, spool for a
LaserWriter, and act as Unix based AppleShare compatible file server.
CAP also includes a number of sample programs and contributed software.

CAP library routines are structured, for the most part, the same as
the Apple routines described in "Inside AppleTalk" and "Inside
LaserWriter."  Refer to the Apple documents and the procedure comments
for a complete description of the routines and how to call them.

Bill Croft's original work in this area provided the inspiration for CAP.

Prerequisties
------------

 o CAP as originally shipped needs a gateway capable of supporting
   IPTalk (the transmission of AppleTalk DDP packets inside IP UDP packets)
   to translate (gateway) IPTalk packets to/from EtherTalk or LocalTalk.
   Suitable candidates include ...

     * Webster MultiPort Gateway
     * Cayman Gatorbox
     * Shiva FastPath
     * Cisco Router

 o This CAP version supports Native EtherTalk, UAR (Phase 1 or Phase 2) and
   Kernel AppleTalk, UAB (Phase 1) on certain hosts. A gateway as listed
   above is only required to access LocalTalk services.

 o baseline host system: Ultrix 2.0-1.  Most will work under BSD 4.2,
   BSD 4.3, Ultrix 1.0-1.2, Sun OS 3.2 or higher, ACIS 4.2, A/UX, IBM
   RISC 6000, IRIS/IRIX, HP/Apollo Domain (BSD environment), OSF/Alpha,
   386/BSD, FreeBSD and other systems with BSD like networking
   facilities with varying levels of functionality.  Under certain
   systems, only portions will work.

Where
-----

CAP can be obtained by anonymous FTP from

munnari.OZ.AU		mac/{cap60.pl100.tar.Z,cap.patches/*}
ftp-ns.rutgers.EDU      pub/cap/{cap60.pl100.tar.Z,cap.patches/*}
gatekeeper.DEC.COM	pub/net/appletalk/cap/{cap60.pl100.tar.Z,cap.patches/*}
ftp.kuis.kyoto-u.AC.JP	net/cap/{cap60.pl100.tar.Z,cap60.patches/*.Z}
src.doc.ic.AC.UK	packages/multigate/{cap60.pl100.tar.Z,cap.patches/*}

Please choose an appropriate site and an off-peak time for the transfer.

The patches are available individually or as the files "patches.1-100.tar.Z",
"patches.101-126.tar.Z", "patches.127-143.tar.Z", "patches.144-154.tar.Z",
"patches.155-162.tar.Z", "patches.163-182.tar.Z" & "patches.183-192.tar.Z".
Additionally, for new users, a partially patched source file is available
as "cap60.pl100.tar.Z" (beware: the file cap60.tar.Z is totally unpatched).

Patches
-------

To make the process of patching easier, you should get the 'patch' utility
written by Larry Wall, it is normally available from sites that archive
comp.sources.unix in volume7/patch2 and at GNU archive sites as
patch-2.1.tar.gz (which requires gzip-1.2.2.tar for unpacking).

For each of the patches, run 'patch -p < cap60.patchNNN' from the top level
cap60 directory, for example, in csh

		foreach i (cap60.patches/cap60.patch*)
		patch -p < $i >>& /tmp/patches
		end

and check the /tmp/patches file for patching errors (look for the strings
"rej", "failed", "offset", "fuzz" - should be none).  To remove the *.orig
files that patch leaves behind (containing the original version of the file),
run 'make spotless' from the top level directory (note that spotless also
removes all makefiles so gen.makes needs to be run to regenerate them).

Information
-----------

There is no CAP mailing list.  Instead, notices and information about
CAP are posted to the mailing list info-appletalk which is gatewayed
with the USENET news group comp.protocols.appletalk.  If you don't
have access to comp.protocols.appletalk and have access to the
ARPANET, you can get on the mailing list by sending mail to
info-appletalk-request@andrew.cmu.edu.

Information about CAP and related UNIX AppleTalk packages is available
via the World Wide Web using

	http://www.cs.mu.OZ.AU/appletalk/atalk.html

The CAP FAQ (Frequently Asked Questions) file is available via FTP
from munnari.OZ.AU as the file

	mac/CAP.faq

Documentation
-------------

Important documentation resides in:

	doc/install.ms - stepwise installation document: assumes
	  you have read NOTES and this document
	doc/print.cookbook - simple steps to implement CAP printing
	man/* - UNIX manual entries for the various CAP programs
	NOTES - installation notes: READ THIS BEFORE STARTING INSTALLATION
	PORTING - notes on porting CAP to machines it doesn't know about

What's in CAP
-------------

The Columbia AppleTalk Package consists of a number of libraries, a
number of programs, and associated documentation.  Following is a list
of the main parts along with a brief description.  

 o NOTES for a general overview of installation and some overview material.

 o PORTING for information about making CAP work on systems not listed
   in NOTES

 netat - general header files used by various parts of CAP
 man - man pages for some of the programs
 doc - documentation
 lib/cap - main appletalk libraries: ASP, PAP, ATP, NBP, DDP
 lib/afp - generic AppleTalk Filing Protocol (AFP) routines
 lib/afpc - AFP client libraries
 lib/xenix - compatibility routines for XENIX use
 etc - support programs: only atis - support program for NBP
 extras - code and materials not necessarily related to AppleTalk
 samples - sample programs: allow simple interaction with lw, appleshare
	server, etc.  See README there.
 contrib - contributed programs
 support - alterative LAP delivery support, Native EtherTalk,
	Kernel AppleTalk and UAB.
 applications - main applications.

The following programs in applications are in regular use at Columbia
and are a main part of the reason we work on CAP:
  papif		- UNIX lpd "input" filter for spooling to appletalk
		- also includes sample "output" filter and printcap entry
		- Note: this is a very bare bones filter
  lwsrv		- Simple LaserWriter spooler suitable for extension
  aufs		- AppleTalk Filing Protocol Unix File Server

    NOTE: You must have the AppleShare 1.1 or 2.0 client code installed in
      your Macintosh to use this.  You must obtain this from Apple -
      we do not and do not plan to supply this.  The client code is
      a lot of work and Apple's already done an excellent job here.

Bug Reports
-----------

Send bug report, comments, etc. to cap@munnari.OZ.AU or uunet!munnari!cap

Notes
-----
Hasn't been througly checked out on any system except Ultrix 2.0 & SunOS.
It it known to have run or should be able to run under: BSD 4.2, BSD
4.3, Ultrix 1.0, 1.1, 1.2, 2.2, Sun OS 3.2 or higher, Pyramid's Unix
under the BSD universe, ACIS 4.2 or 4.3 for the IBM RT PC, A/UX, HP-UX
for the series 9000 (release 6.0), Convex Unix V6.1, Sequents, IBM AIX
on the RISC 6000, Silicon Graphics IRIS/IRIX, HP/Apollo Domain (BSD),
OSF/1 Alpha, 386/BSD, FreeBSD and the Encore Multimax.

LAP - will probably never be implemented
DDP - don't try to use it directly
Documentation - in shorter supply than it should really be


TODO list
---------
a) Complete NBP - completed.
b) Complete PAP - completed.  
c) Complete ATP - completed.
d) Complete DDP - essentially completed, but some minor parts missing.
e) Complete ASP - completed.
f) Start AFP - client side needs to be redone, server side okay.
g) Start ZIP work.  KIP modified to allow under rev 1/88.
h) Start RTMP work.  Not need under KIP.
i) miscellanous other fixes and cleanup


Credits
-------

Thanks to the User Services staff at Columbia University Center for
Computing Activies for patiently testing all the broken software that
was foisted on them as "working" with special thanks going to:
	Rob Cartolano for testing Aufs beyond the call of duty
	Alan Crosswell for making papif die more than anyone else and
		letting me use his RT.
	Lisa Covi and Jeff Eldredge for living with the software in
		our Mac MicroLab
	Mark Kennedy, Tom Chow, and Richard Sacks for giving Charlie
		the support and time to work on CAP
and Father Larry "Mac" McCormick from the Columbia University
Macintosh Users Group for his inspiration and support.

And to the following list of people for their
support, help, commentary, and bug fixes:
	Bill Croft, SUMEX, Stanford University
	Janet Tornow, Apple Computer
	Dan Tappan, Bolt Beranek and Newman
	Rakesh Patel, Rutgers University
	Charles Hedrick, Rutgers University
	Robert Elz, University of Melbourne, Australia
	Dan Sahlin, Swedish Institute of Computer Science, Sweden
	Scooter Morris, Genentech
	Mike Byron, Adobe Systems Incorporated
	Tom Mallory, Adobe Systems Incorporated
	Phil Farrell, School of Earth Sciences, Stanford University
	Mark Davies, VUW, New Zealand
	Roy Smith, Public Health Research Institute, NYC
	Ritch Ruff, Oregeon State
	Dan Lanciani, Harvard University
	Ravinder (Rob) Chandhok, Carnegie Mellon University
	Dwight Mckay, Purdue University
	Steve Fram, CITI, University of Michigan
	Paul Campbell, Unisoft
	Edward Moy, WSSG, University of California at Berkelely
	Tharen Debold, Georgia Tech
	Jim Guyton, The Rand Corporation
	and any we might accidently left out of this list
our thanks!
 

Further CAP 6.0 thanks to
	William Roberts, Queen Mary & Westfield College, UK
	Edward Moy, University of California at Berkeley
	Steve P. Andrewartha, University of Tasmania
	Tom Evans, Webster Computer Corp.
	Phil Budne, Shiva
	Rakesh Patel, Rutgers University
	Chip Salzenberg, Teltronics/TCT
	Dan Oscarsson, Lund Institute of Technology, Sweden
	Bridget Rogers, University of MN, Duluth
	Matthew Lewis, University of Amsterdam
	Max Tardiveau, University of St. Thomas
and lots of nice people at the University of Melbourne, Australia.
